The President:
Hi, everybody.
Our top priority as a nation,
and my top priority as
President, must be doing
everything we can to re-ignite
the engine of America's growth:
a rising, thriving middle class.
That's our North Star.
That must drive every
decision that we make.
Now, yesterday, we learned that
our businesses created 95,000
new jobs last month.
That's about 500,000
new jobs this year,
and nearly 6.5 million new jobs
over the past three years.
But we've got more to do to
get the economy growing faster,
so that everybody who
wants a job can find one.
And that means we need fewer
self-inflicted wounds from
Washington, like the
across-the-board spending cuts
that are already hurting
many communities --
cuts that economists predict
will cost our economy hundreds
of thousands of jobs this year.
If we want to keep rebuilding
this economy on a stronger,
sturdier foundation for growth
-- growth that creates good,
middle-class jobs -- we
have to make smarter choices.
This week, I'll send a budget to
Congress that will help do just
that -- a fiscally-responsible
blueprint for middle-class
jobs and growth.
For years, an argument in
Washington has raged between
reducing our deficits
at all costs,
and making the investments
we need to grow the economy.
My budget puts that
argument to rest.
Because we don't have to
choose between these goals --
we can do both.
After all, as we
saw in the 1990s,
nothing reduces deficits
faster than a growing economy.
My budget will reduce our
deficits not with aimless,
reckless spending cuts that
hurt students and seniors and
middle-class families -- but
through the balanced approach
that the American people prefer,
and the investments that a
growing economy demands.
Now, the truth is, our deficits
are already shrinking.
That's a fact.
I've already signed more than
$2.5 trillion in deficit
reduction into law, and my
budget will reduce our deficits
by nearly $2 trillion more,
without harming the recovery.
That surpasses the goal of $4
trillion in deficit reduction
that many economists believe
will stabilize our finances.
We'll make the tough reforms
required to strengthen Medicare
for the future, without
undermining the rock-solid
guarantee at its core.
And we'll enact commonsense tax
reform that includes closing
wasteful tax loopholes for the
wealthy and well-connected --
loopholes like the ones that
allow a billionaire to pay a
lower tax rate than
his or her secretary.
This is the compromise I offered
the Speaker of the House at the
end of last year.
While it's not my ideal plan
to further reduce the deficit,
it's a compromise I'm willing to
accept in order to move beyond a
cycle of short-term,
crisis-driven decision-making,
and so that we can focus on
growing our economy and our
middle class for the long run.
It includes ideas many
Republicans have said they could
accept as well.
It's a way we can make
progress together.
But deficit reduction cannot
come at the cost of economic
growth or middle-class security.
And it doesn't have to.
My budget will make critical
investments to grow the economy,
create jobs, and strengthen
the middle class.
As I said in my State of the
Union Address, every day,
we should ask ourselves
three questions:
How do we make America
a magnet for good jobs?
How do we give our workers
the skills they need to
do those jobs?
And how do we make sure
that hard work leads to a
decent living?
To make America a
magnet for good jobs,
we'll invest in high-tech
manufacturing and homegrown
American energy, put people
to work building new roads,
and bridges, and schools,
and cut red tape to help
businesses grow.
To give workers the skills
they need to do those jobs,
we'll invest in education that
begins in the earliest years,
and job training that better
equips workers to compete in a
21st century economy.
To make sure hard
work is rewarded,
we'll build new ladders of
opportunity into the middle
class, and focus on revitalizing
some of our communities
hardest-hit by
recession and job loss.
All of these investments will
help grow the economy and
create jobs.
None of them will
add to the deficit.
And I will lay out these
priorities in greater detail in
the days ahead.
It's a budget that doesn't
spend beyond our means.
And it's a budget that doesn't
make harsh and unnecessary cuts
that only serve to
slow our economy.
We'll keep our promise to an
aging generation by shoring
up Medicare.
And we'll keep our promise to
the next generation by investing
in the fundamentals that have
always made America strong --
manufacturing, innovation,
energy and education.
Because that's what it'll take
to make sure America remains
strong in the years ahead -- and
to leave behind something better
for our kids.
Thanks so much.
Have a great weekend.